A Simple RAM Disk Server

RD is a simple ram disk server written mainly to familiarize myself
with the VSTa messaging architecture.  However, I hope that it may
actually be usefull to some folks.

The server can create up to sixteen blocks of RAM that appear as
block devices.  These can be formatted with a filesystem and mounted.
Also a flat or gzipped compressed image file may be loaded into a
device at server startup.

Command Line Options

There are only two command line options, 'ramN' and 'loadN' where N is
an integer between 0 and 15.

'ramN=M' creates a ramdisk of a size M, where M may be a decimal or
hex number.  For example

rd ram0=4194304

and 

rd ram0=0x400000

both create a 4MB ramdrive with a device name of ram0.  Note that
spacing is important, there cannot be a space between the equals
sign.  The index of the ram disk 'N' can be any integer between 0 and
15 and need to be consecutive, however you cannot use an index more
than once.

'loadN=image.bin' is used to load an image file into a ram disk where
'N' is the index of the ram disk and 'image.bin' is the path to the
file to be loaded.  Note that you must also create the ram disk with
the 'ramN' option.  If the image file is smaller than the ram disk the
internal size variable with be lowered.  If it is smaller the server
will abort.  Again spacing is important, do not leave a space before
or after the equals sign.  What can I say, I'm lazy.

An example:

rd ram0=0x400000 load0=root.img

will create a four meg ram disk and load the file 'root.img' into it.
If you have linked the server against the zlib library (see the
makefile) the file may be either a flat file or compressed with gzip.

Mouting

Once the server is running, you may mount into your namespace as such:

mount disk/rd /rd

The ram disks will appear with the device name 'ramN' as in the
command line.

That's about, feel free to email me regarding any problems or bugs.

Eddie, 9/24/2001

Eddie McCreary                  Outside of a dog, a book is a man's best
mailto:beowulf@heorot.org       friend.  Inside of a dog, it's too dark 
http://www.heorot.org           to read. -Groucho Marx




